---
layout: post
title: Joining the MILA for a PhD - What about you?
comments: true
cover_image: mila.png
excerpt: Just arrived in Montréal to fight climate change with AI. We're hiring!
tags:
  - News
author:
  name: Victor Schmidt
  twitter: vict0rsch
  github: vict0rsch
---

1. 
{:toc}

# A New Adventure

Because I believe in science and in AI, because I beleive everything should be done to fight climate change, climate change sckepticism and that the Machine Learning community should play its part, I decided to join the [Montréal Institute for Learning Algorithm](https://mila.quebec/en).

Supervised by Pr. [Yoshua Bengio](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=kukA0LcAAAAJ), I currently work on a project using AI to fight climate change (CCAI)

# Join

This **CCAI** project is an inter-disciplinary enterprise aimed at creating compelling and actionnable visuals to engage people into the fight. The hope is that visuals of how neighborhoods and houses would look like depending on the scale and intensity of global warming will help people **visceralize** climate change into acting for real, as widely as possible but mainly macroscopically _i.e._ at the scale of _structures_ like multinational companies and governments.

## Ressources

Here's a quick [**deck presenting the CCAI project**](https://slides.com/vict0rsch/ccai-1)

Here's the project's [**executive summary**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WQtugSBgMVB-i0RhgCg_qaP7WDj7aimWvpZytKTEqY4) by Y. Bengio (MILA) and J. Chayes (Microsoft Research).

## We're Hiring

Pr. Bengio's actively looking for

- a **Post-Doc** to work full-time on these issues (experience in project management and GANs will be highly appreciated along with a strong motivation).
- **Interns** (any level) (any time) to work on the CCAI project. Depending on your Degree, you're expected to be familiar with Machine Learning problems, ideally GANs and have good coding skills. Software Engineers are also welcome.

<div style="text-align: center">
  <a href="https://mila.quebec/en/admission-process-for-interns/" target="_blank" class="btn btn-outline-dark" style="font-size: 2 rem;">Apply Now</a>
</div>
