---
layout: post
title: "Something you can do with AI to tackle Climate Change"
comments: true
cover_image: 
excerpt: "At Mila, I am part of a project aiming at bringing the future closer to people so that they can act on it"
tags:
  - General
  - Climate Change
  - GANs
author:
  name: Victor Schmidt
  twitter: vict0rsch
  github: vict0rsch
---

# Visualizing the consequences of Climate Change

We are not only a rational species. We also (re)act based on our emotions. Some argue they are actually the only way we make up our minds. So here are 2 central observations: 

1. We're at least partly not rational
2. Our rational minds have not lead us to sufficient action against Climate Change.

That's why we hope that by bringing the future closer to people's minds, we can actually trigger a more emotional and visceral reaction which in turn will trigger relevant actions and change our behaviors in order to limit the consequences of Climate Change.

Images have a great role in how we percieve the world and they do trigger emotions. This is why we try and create **personalized** visualizations of climate-related extreme events. For our current prototype, we focus on floods.

# How you can help

We have this open repository: [**a shared knowledge database**](https://github.com/cc-ai/kdb) we use to discuss topics, distribute tasks and manage the project.

<h5 align="center">Do check, raise and solve [issues](https://github.com/cc-ai/kdb/issues)!<h5/>

# How it works

Our current goal is to create visualizations with GANs. We've tried CycleGans, looked into Attention-Guided CycleGANs and are currently checking out Instance-Aware GANs for unsupervised Image-to-Image translation. 

We have a lot of other ideas and yours are welcome!

## Areas of interest

There are tons of subject to be discussed around this project, including but not restricted to:

* AI (GANs or other approaches)
* Economic and Climate Modeling
* Behavioral Sciences
* Web development 
* UI/UX design + user research
* etc.

# Want to have a look?

Here are a few resources for you to get a better understanding of what we are trying to do:

* [A 2 page executive summary with references](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WQtugSBgMVB-i0RhgCg_qaP7WDj7aimWvpZytKTEqY4/edit)
* A 5-page paper published at the AI for Social Good workshop at ICLR 2019
  * [Slides for the presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/102ls8OLOEnpAJtplqChALnBt_qxZz_NhqvPQebXbyNM/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Our Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/climatechangeai)